# Primes
Ruby Prime Calculation and other math tools

### Overview
This program was an exercise for programming in Ruby.  There are two parts.  The first is Primes.r which creates a file that contains a set number of primes.  The program now asks the user how many primes to generate.  This goes into the testfile.data with the first entry in the file being the number of primes in the file.

The second part is the CheckPrime.r program.  It first reads in the data file generated by Primes.r.  The first entry in the data file is the number of primes the file holds.  If there was an "while (!EOF)" structure...
Anyway, the program then asks for a number and then proceeds to check if it is prime.  There are some basic user validation checks.  Also, after checking it is prime, the program also checks to see if the number is one of the Fibonacci numbers.

### Fibonacci sequence number generator

I have also added to this repo a program that asks the users how many terms of the Fibonacci sequence to generate and then saves them into a file called Fib_seq.data.

The Fibonacci sequence is defined as:
* a_0 = 0
* a_1 = 1
* a_n = a_n-1 + a_n-2 for n>1

Look it up on wikipedia if you want more info.

### Program P1002
This program was written to test the accuracy and limits of Binet's formula which is a direct calculation of the n-th term of the sequence.  There are some comments added to the end of the program discussing where the limits of the arithmatic engine in Ruby lie.

### Program P1003
This program was written to create an array with the Farey series of order N as entered at the prompt.  At the end of the program you have an array, where each entry in the array gives you at element [x][0], the decimal representation of the term in the Farey series, at element [x][1], the numerator and at element [x][2], the denominator of the term in the Farey series.  In Hardy's and Wright's *An introduction to the theory of numbers*, in section 3.4, theres a brief explanation of how to find the next term in a Farey series of order n.  Unfortunately, this seemed to be way too difficult in comparison with the brute force method employed in the program.

### Program P1004
This program has 3 functions defined in it.  One reads and returns an array of prime numbers which are saved in testfile.data.  The other function accepts a number and the array of primes and returns an array of the prime factors of the number.  If the number is divisable multiple times by a prime factor, it will repeat it.  So for example, calling Factor(16, [2,3,5,7]) will return an array [2.0,2.0,2.0,2.0]  since 16 is 2 to the power of 4.
The 3rd function defined is lcm(num1, num2) and returns the lowest (or least) common multiple of num1 and num2.  It uses the Factor function to do this.

### Program P1005
This program tests the functionality in P1004.  You can use it as examples of how to use the functions defined in P1004.